docs/source/example.rst, before:

Example: Wrapping a C model
===========================

In this example, we'll use the *babelizer*
to wrap the *heat* model from the `bmi-example-c`_ repository,
allowing it to be run in Python.
The model and its BMI are written in C.
To simplify package management in the example,
we'll use :term:`conda`.
We'll also use :term:`git` to obtain the model source code.

This is a somewhat long example.
To break it up,
here are the steps we'll take:

#. Create a :term:`conda environment` that includes software to compile the
   model and wrap it with the *babelizer*
#. Clone the `bmi-example-c`_ repository from GitHub and build the
   *heat* model from source
#. Create a *babelizer* input file describing the *heat* model
#. Run the *babelizer* to generate Python bindings, then build the bindings
#. Show the *heat* model running in Python through *pymt*

Before we begin,
create a directory to hold our work:

.. code:: bash

  $ mkdir build && cd build


Set up a conda environment
--------------------------

Start by setting up a :term:`conda environment` that includes the *babelizer*,
as well as a toolchain to build and install the model.
The necessary packages are listed in the conda environment file
:download:`environment.yml`:

.. include:: environment.yml
   :literal:

:download:`Download <environment.yml>` this file
and create the new environment with:

.. code:: bash

  $ conda env create --file=environment.yml

When this command completes,
activate the environment:

.. code:: bash

  $ conda activate wrap

The *wrap* environment now contains all the dependencies needed
to build, install, and wrap the *heat* model.


Build the *heat* model from source
----------------------------------

Clone the `bmi-example-c`_ repository from GitHub:

.. code:: bash

  $ git clone https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c

There are general `instructions`_ in the repository for building and installing
this package on Linux, macOS, and Windows.
We'll augment those instructions
with the note that we're installing into the *wrap* conda environment,
so the ``CONDA_PREFIX`` environment variable
should be used to specify the install path.

Linux and macOS
...............

On Linux and macOS,
use these commands to build and install the *heat* model:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd bmi-example-c
  $ mkdir _build && cd _build
  $ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$CONDA_PREFIX
  $ make
  $ make install

Verify the install by testing for the existence of the header
of the library containing the compiled *heat* model:

.. code:: bash

  $ test -f $CONDA_PREFIX/include/bmi_heat.h

Windows
.......

Building on Windows requires
Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 or Microsoft Build Tools for Visual Studio 2017.
To build and install the *heat* model,
the following commands must be run in a `Developer Command Prompt`_:

.. code::

  > cd bmi-example-c
  > mkdir _build && cd _build
  > cmake .. ^
      -G "NMake Makefiles" ^
      -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%CONDA_PREFIX% ^
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
  > cmake --build . --target install --config Release

Verify the install by testing for the existence of the header
of the library containing the compiled *heat* model:

.. code::

  > if not exist %LIBRARY_INC%\\bmi_heat.h exit 1 

Create the *babelizer* input file
---------------------------------

The *babelizer* input file provides information to the *babelizer*
about the model to be wrapped.
The input file is created with the ``babelize generate`` subcommand.

Return to our initial ``build`` directory and call ``babelize generate`` with:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd ~/build
  $ babelize generate babel_heatc.toml \
      --package=pymt_heatc \
      --summary="PyMT plugin for heat model" \
      --language=c \
      --library=bmiheatc \
      --header=bmi_heat.h \
      --entry-point=register_bmi_heat \
      --name=HeatModel \
      --requirement=""

In this call,
the *babelizer* will also interactively prompt for author name, author email,
GitHub username, and license.
These can be optionally be filled in, or the defaults can be used.

The resulting file, :download:`babel_heatc.toml`,
will look something like this:

.. include:: babel_heatc.toml
   :literal:

For more information on the entries and sections of the *babelizer* input file,
see `Input file <./readme.html#input-file>`_.


Wrap the model with the *babelizer*
-----------------------------------

Generate Python bindings for the model with the ``babelize init`` subcommand:

.. code:: bash

  $ babelize init babel_heatc.toml .

The results are placed in a new directory, ``pymt_heatc``,
under the current directory.

.. code:: bash

  $ ls -aF pymt_heatc
  ./                        MANIFEST.in               pyproject.toml
  ../                       Makefile                  recipe/
  .git/                     README.py                 requirements-build.txt
  .gitignore                README.rst                requirements-library.txt
  .travis.yml               babel.toml                requirements-testing.txt
  CHANGES.rst               docs/                     requirements.txt
  CREDITS.rst               meta/                     setup.cfg
  LICENSE                   pymt_heatc/               setup.py

Before we can build the Python bindings,
we must ensure that the dependencies required by the toolchain,
as well as any required by the model,
as specified in the *babelizer* input file (none in this case),
are satisfied.

Change to the ``pymt_heatc`` directory and install dependencies
into the conda environment:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd pymt_heatc
  $ conda install -c conda-forge \
      --file=requirements-build.txt \
      --file=requirements-testing.txt \
      --file=requirements-library.txt \
      --file=requirements.txt

Now build the Python bindings with:

.. code:: bash

  $ make install

This command sets off a long list of messages,
at the end of which you'll hopefully see:

.. code:: bash

  Successfully installed pymt-heatc

Pause a moment to see what we've done.
Start a Python session and try the following commands:

.. code:: python

  >>> from pymt_heatc import HeatModel
  >>> m = HeatModel()
  >>> print(m.get_component_name())
  The 2D Heat Equation

We've imported the *heat* model,
written in C,
into Python!

At this point,
it's a good idea to run the *bmi-tester* (`GitHub repo <bmi-tester>`_)
over the model.
The *bmi-tester* exercises each BMI method exposed through Python,
ensuring it works correctly.
However, before running the *bmi-tester*,
one last piece of information is needed.
Like all models equipped with a BMI,
*heat* uses a :term:`configuration file` to specify initial parameter values.
Download the file :download:`config.txt <examples/config.txt>` for use here.

Run the *bmi-tester* with:

.. code:: bash

  $ bmi-test pymt_heatc:HeatModel --config-file=config.txt --root-dir=. -vvv

This command sets off a long list of messages,
ending with

.. code:: bash

  🎉 All tests passed!
  
if everything has been built correctly.


Add metadata to make a *pymt* component
---------------------------------------

The final step in wrapping the *heat* model
is to add metadata used by the `Python Modeling Tool`_, *pymt*.
CSDMS develops a set of standards,
the `CSDMS Model Metadata`_,
that provides a detailed and formalized description of a model.
The metadata allow *heat* to be run and and :term:`coupled <model coupling>`
with other models that expose a BMI and have been similarly wrapped
with the *babelizer*.

Recall the *babelizer* outputs the wrapped *heat* model
to the directory ``pymt_heatc``.
Under this directory,
the *babelizer* created a directory for *heat* model metadata,
``meta/HeatModel``.
The contents of this directory are currently:

.. code:: bash

  $ ls meta/HeatModel/
  api.yaml

The file ``api.yaml`` is automatically generated by the *babelizer*.
To complete the description of the *heat* model,
other metadata files are needed, including:

* :download:`info.yaml <examples/info.yaml>`
* :download:`run.yaml <examples/run.yaml>`
* a :download:`templated model configuration file <examples/heat.txt>`
* :download:`parameters.yaml <examples/parameters.yaml>`

`Descriptions`_ of these files and their roles
are given in the CSDMS Model Metadata repository.
Download each of the files using the links in the list above
and place them in the ``pymt_heatc/meta/HeatModel`` directory
alongside ``api.yaml``.

Next, install *pymt*:

.. code:: bash

  $ conda install -c conda-forge pymt

Then start a Python session and show that the *heat* model
can be called through *pymt*:

.. code:: python

  >>> from pymt.models import HeatModel
  >>> m = HeatModel()
  >>> print(m.name)
  The 2D Heat Equation

A longer example,
:download:`pymt_heatc_ex.py <examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py>`,
is included in the documentation.
For easy viewing, it's reproduced here verbatim:

.. include:: examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py
   :literal:

:download:`Download <examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py>` this Python script,
then run it with:

.. code:: bash

  $ python pymt_heatc_ex.py


Summary
-------

Using the *babelizer*, we wrapped the *heat* model, which is written in C.
It can now be called as a *pymt* component in Python.

The steps for wrapping a model with the *babelizer* outlined in this example
can also be applied to models written in C++ and Fortran.


..
   Links

.. _bmi-example-c: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c
.. _instructions: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c/blob/master/README.md
.. _Developer Command Prompt: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs
.. _bmi-tester: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-tester
.. _Python Modeling Tool: https://pymt.readthedocs.io
.. _CSDMS Model Metadata: https://github.com/csdms/model_metadata
.. _Descriptions: https://github.com/csdms/model_metadata/blob/develop/README.rst

Commit message:

Note use of source in lieu of conda

docs/source/example.rst, after:

Example: Wrapping a C model
===========================

In this example, we'll use the *babelizer*
to wrap the *heat* model from the `bmi-example-c`_ repository,
allowing it to be run in Python.
The model and its BMI are written in C.
To simplify package management in the example,
we'll use :term:`conda`.
We'll also use :term:`git` to obtain the model source code.

This is a somewhat long example.
To break it up,
here are the steps we'll take:

#. Create a :term:`conda environment` that includes software to compile the
   model and wrap it with the *babelizer*
#. Clone the `bmi-example-c`_ repository from GitHub and build the
   *heat* model from source
#. Create a *babelizer* input file describing the *heat* model
#. Run the *babelizer* to generate Python bindings, then build the bindings
#. Show the *heat* model running in Python through *pymt*

Before we begin,
create a directory to hold our work:

.. code:: bash

  $ mkdir build && cd build


Set up a conda environment
--------------------------

Start by setting up a :term:`conda environment` that includes the *babelizer*,
as well as a toolchain to build and install the model.
The necessary packages are listed in the conda environment file
:download:`environment.yml`:

.. include:: environment.yml
   :literal:

:download:`Download <environment.yml>` this file
and create the new environment with:

.. code:: bash

  $ conda env create --file=environment.yml

When this command completes,
activate the environment
(on Linux and macOS, you may have to use ``source`` instead of ``conda``):

.. code:: bash

  $ conda activate wrap

The *wrap* environment now contains all the dependencies needed
to build, install, and wrap the *heat* model.


Build the *heat* model from source
----------------------------------

Clone the `bmi-example-c`_ repository from GitHub:

.. code:: bash

  $ git clone https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c

There are general `instructions`_ in the repository for building and installing
this package on Linux, macOS, and Windows.
We'll augment those instructions
with the note that we're installing into the *wrap* conda environment,
so the ``CONDA_PREFIX`` environment variable
should be used to specify the install path.

Linux and macOS
...............

On Linux and macOS,
use these commands to build and install the *heat* model:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd bmi-example-c
  $ mkdir _build && cd _build
  $ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$CONDA_PREFIX
  $ make
  $ make install

Verify the install by testing for the existence of the header
of the library containing the compiled *heat* model:

.. code:: bash

  $ test -f $CONDA_PREFIX/include/bmi_heat.h

Windows
.......

Building on Windows requires
Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 or Microsoft Build Tools for Visual Studio 2017.
To build and install the *heat* model,
the following commands must be run in a `Developer Command Prompt`_:

.. code::

  > cd bmi-example-c
  > mkdir _build && cd _build
  > cmake .. ^
      -G "NMake Makefiles" ^
      -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%CONDA_PREFIX% ^
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
  > cmake --build . --target install --config Release

Verify the install by testing for the existence of the header
of the library containing the compiled *heat* model:

.. code::

  > if not exist %LIBRARY_INC%\\bmi_heat.h exit 1 

Create the *babelizer* input file
---------------------------------

The *babelizer* input file provides information to the *babelizer*
about the model to be wrapped.
The input file is created with the ``babelize generate`` subcommand.

Return to our initial ``build`` directory and call ``babelize generate`` with:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd ~/build
  $ babelize generate babel_heatc.toml \
      --package=pymt_heatc \
      --summary="PyMT plugin for heat model" \
      --language=c \
      --library=bmiheatc \
      --header=bmi_heat.h \
      --entry-point=register_bmi_heat \
      --name=HeatModel \
      --requirement=""

In this call,
the *babelizer* will also interactively prompt for author name, author email,
GitHub username, and license.
These can be optionally be filled in, or the defaults can be used.

The resulting file, :download:`babel_heatc.toml`,
will look something like this:

.. include:: babel_heatc.toml
   :literal:

For more information on the entries and sections of the *babelizer* input file,
see `Input file <./readme.html#input-file>`_.


Wrap the model with the *babelizer*
-----------------------------------

Generate Python bindings for the model with the ``babelize init`` subcommand:

.. code:: bash

  $ babelize init babel_heatc.toml .

The results are placed in a new directory, ``pymt_heatc``,
under the current directory.

.. code:: bash

  $ ls -aF pymt_heatc
  ./                        MANIFEST.in               pyproject.toml
  ../                       Makefile                  recipe/
  .git/                     README.py                 requirements-build.txt
  .gitignore                README.rst                requirements-library.txt
  .travis.yml               babel.toml                requirements-testing.txt
  CHANGES.rst               docs/                     requirements.txt
  CREDITS.rst               meta/                     setup.cfg
  LICENSE                   pymt_heatc/               setup.py

Before we can build the Python bindings,
we must ensure that the dependencies required by the toolchain,
as well as any required by the model,
as specified in the *babelizer* input file (none in this case),
are satisfied.

Change to the ``pymt_heatc`` directory and install dependencies
into the conda environment:

.. code:: bash

  $ cd pymt_heatc
  $ conda install -c conda-forge \
      --file=requirements-build.txt \
      --file=requirements-testing.txt \
      --file=requirements-library.txt \
      --file=requirements.txt

Now build the Python bindings with:

.. code:: bash

  $ make install

This command sets off a long list of messages,
at the end of which you'll hopefully see:

.. code:: bash

  Successfully installed pymt-heatc

Pause a moment to see what we've done.
Start a Python session and try the following commands:

.. code:: python

  >>> from pymt_heatc import HeatModel
  >>> m = HeatModel()
  >>> print(m.get_component_name())
  The 2D Heat Equation

We've imported the *heat* model,
written in C,
into Python!

At this point,
it's a good idea to run the *bmi-tester* (`GitHub repo <bmi-tester>`_)
over the model.
The *bmi-tester* exercises each BMI method exposed through Python,
ensuring it works correctly.
However, before running the *bmi-tester*,
one last piece of information is needed.
Like all models equipped with a BMI,
*heat* uses a :term:`configuration file` to specify initial parameter values.
Download the file :download:`config.txt <examples/config.txt>` for use here.

Run the *bmi-tester* with:

.. code:: bash

  $ bmi-test pymt_heatc:HeatModel --config-file=config.txt --root-dir=. -vvv

This command sets off a long list of messages,
ending with

.. code:: bash

  🎉 All tests passed!
  
if everything has been built correctly.


Add metadata to make a *pymt* component
---------------------------------------

The final step in wrapping the *heat* model
is to add metadata used by the `Python Modeling Tool`_, *pymt*.
CSDMS develops a set of standards,
the `CSDMS Model Metadata`_,
that provides a detailed and formalized description of a model.
The metadata allow *heat* to be run and and :term:`coupled <model coupling>`
with other models that expose a BMI and have been similarly wrapped
with the *babelizer*.

Recall the *babelizer* outputs the wrapped *heat* model
to the directory ``pymt_heatc``.
Under this directory,
the *babelizer* created a directory for *heat* model metadata,
``meta/HeatModel``.
The contents of this directory are currently:

.. code:: bash

  $ ls meta/HeatModel/
  api.yaml

The file ``api.yaml`` is automatically generated by the *babelizer*.
To complete the description of the *heat* model,
other metadata files are needed, including:

* :download:`info.yaml <examples/info.yaml>`
* :download:`run.yaml <examples/run.yaml>`
* a :download:`templated model configuration file <examples/heat.txt>`
* :download:`parameters.yaml <examples/parameters.yaml>`

`Descriptions`_ of these files and their roles
are given in the CSDMS Model Metadata repository.
Download each of the files using the links in the list above
and place them in the ``pymt_heatc/meta/HeatModel`` directory
alongside ``api.yaml``.

Next, install *pymt*:

.. code:: bash

  $ conda install -c conda-forge pymt

Then start a Python session and show that the *heat* model
can be called through *pymt*:

.. code:: python

  >>> from pymt.models import HeatModel
  >>> m = HeatModel()
  >>> print(m.name)
  The 2D Heat Equation

A longer example,
:download:`pymt_heatc_ex.py <examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py>`,
is included in the documentation.
For easy viewing, it's reproduced here verbatim:

.. include:: examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py
   :literal:

:download:`Download <examples/pymt_heatc_ex.py>` this Python script,
then run it with:

.. code:: bash

  $ python pymt_heatc_ex.py


Summary
-------

Using the *babelizer*, we wrapped the *heat* model, which is written in C.
It can now be called as a *pymt* component in Python.

The steps for wrapping a model with the *babelizer* outlined in this example
can also be applied to models written in C++ and Fortran.


..
   Links

.. _bmi-example-c: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c
.. _instructions: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-example-c/blob/master/README.md
.. _Developer Command Prompt: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs
.. _bmi-tester: https://github.com/csdms/bmi-tester
.. _Python Modeling Tool: https://pymt.readthedocs.io
.. _CSDMS Model Metadata: https://github.com/csdms/model_metadata
.. _Descriptions: https://github.com/csdms/model_metadata/blob/develop/README.rst
