---
title: "The Babelizer"
tags:
  - C
  - C++
  - Fortran
  - Python
  - geosciences
  - modeling
  - interface
authors:
  - name: Eric W.H. Hutton
    orcid: 0000-0002-5864-6459
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Mark D. Piper
    orcid: 0000-0001-6418-277X
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Gregory E. Tucker
    orcid: 0000-0003-0364-5800
    affiliation: 1, 2, 3
affiliations:
  - name: Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System, University of Colorado Boulder
    index: 1
  - name: Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado Boulder
    index: 2
  - name: Department of Geological Sciences, University of Colorado Boulder
    index: 3
date: 18 December 2020
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary

The Basic Model Interface describes
a standardized set of functions (REF) that a software element must
implement to become BMI-compliant. Although we have provided BMI
specifications for four languages (C, C++, Fortran, and Python), the
interface standard itself, is language agnostic and additional bindings
can be defined for any language. If we look at Figure 1,
we notice that the landscape of software generated by the CSDMS community
reflects a range of languages and, so, language-interoperability is critical
to a coupling framework if it is to reflect the diversity of the CSDMS community.

Our approach to solve this language-interoperability problem is to
choose a *hub* language through which other languages will communicate.
This approach allows us to only provide bridges from each supported language
to the hub language rather than building bridges for each language to every
other language (i.e. N-bridges rather than N^2-bridges). We have chosen Python
to be our hub language for several reasons: it's open source, has a large user
base in our community, has an active community that supports a vast library
of 3rd-party packages, and, importantly, there are existing pathways to bring 
many other languages into Python.

The *babelizer* is a command-line utility we created to streamline the
process of bringing a BMI component into Python. For libraries that expose a
BMI, the *babelizer* creates the necessary glue code to create a Python
importable package that presents the BMI component as a Python class. We
wrote the *babelizer* to be easily extensible to additional languages but,
presently, it can be used to wrap libraries written in C, C++ and Fortran
using the *cython* language.


# Acknowledgements

This work is supported by the National Science Foundation
under Grant No. 1831623, *Community Facility Support: The
Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System (CSDMS)*.

# References


